peak performance experts say things like, “you should focus. you need to eliminate the distractions. commit to one thing and become great at that thing.”

this is good advice. the more i study successful people from all walks of life—artists, athletes, entrepreneurs, scientists—the more i believe focus is a core factor of success.

but there is a problem with this advice too.

of the many options in front of you, how do you know what to focus on? how do you know where to direct your energy and attention? how do you determine the one thing that you should commit to doing?

i don’t claim to have all the answers, but let me share what i’ve learned so far.

“until something comes easily…”

like most entrepreneurs, i struggled through my first year of building a business.

i launched my first product without having any idea who i would sell it to. (big surprise, nobody bought it.) i reached out to important people, mismanaged expectations, made stupid mistakes, and essentially ruined the chance to build good relationships with people i respected. i attempted to teach myself how to code, made one change to my website, and deleted everything i had done during the previous three months.

to put it simply, i didn't know what i was doing.

during my year of many errors i received a good piece of advice: “try things until something comes easily.” i took the advice to heart and tried four or five different business ideas over the next 18 months. i'd give each one a shot for two or three months, mix in a little bit of freelance work so i could continue scraping by and paying the bills, and repeat the process.

eventually, i found “something that came easily” and i was able to focus on building one business rather than trying to find an idea. in other words, i was able to simplify.

this was the first thing i discovered about figuring out what to focus on. if you want to master and deeply understand the core fundamentals of a task you may, paradoxically, need to start by casting a very wide net. by trying many different things, you can get a sense of what comes more easily to you and set yourself up for success. it is much easier to focus on something that's working than struggle along with a bad idea.

make a call about what to focus on

assuming you're willing to try things and experiment a bit, the next question is, “how do i know what's coming easily to me?”

the best answer i can give is to pay attention. usually, this means measuring something.

if you're an entrepreneur, track your marketing and promotion efforts.

if you're trying to gain muscle, track your workouts.

if you're learning an instrument, track your practice sessions.

even when you do measure things, however, there comes a point where you have to make a call and decide what to focus on.

in my mind, this moment of decision is one of the central tensions of entrepreneurship. do we continue trying new things or do we double down on one strategy? do we try to innovate or do we commit to doing one thing well?

everyone wants to know the right time to simplify and focus on one thing, but nobody does. that's what makes success so hard. entrepreneurship isn’t like baking a cake. there is no recipe. there is no guidebook. 1

at this stage, your best option is to decide. you can't try everything. at some point, you don't need more information, you just need to make a choice.

a volume of work

now we have reached the stage where figuring out what to focus on becomes a real possibility.

you have experimented with enough ideas to discover one or two options that seem to provide better than average results for you. you've overcome the hurdle of wanting more information and the fear of committing to something and now you've made a choice. you took the job. you started the business. you signed up for the class. you're ready.

welcome to the grind. it's time to put in a volume of work. not just once or twice. not just when it's easy. but a consistent, repeated volume of work. you have to fall in love with boredom and stay on the bus.

it is through this sheer number of repetitions that you'll come to understand the fundamentals of your task. you might know what greatness looks like before this point, but you won't understand how to achieve greatness until you've put the work in yourself.

in the words of ira glass, “your taste is good enough that you can tell that what you’re making is kind of a disappointment to you.” you'll bridge that gap between what you know is good and what you can produce yourself by putting in the reps.

this applies to so many areas of life.

want to dress well and develop killer style? you’re going to have to try on a lot of clothes before you can simplify down to the essentials. you’ll probably have to buy a lot of clothes before you can really get a feel for what your day-in, day-out style is. i’m not a fan of promoting rampant consumerism, but if that’s the skill set you want to develop then it’s likely going to take some experimentation and effort.

want to become a great cook? how many bad meals do you think you need to make before you can whip up a “simple, but tasty dinner” whenever you feel like it? i’d say hundreds at least. i don’t know many people who are amazing cooks after making their tenth meal ever. developing a deep understanding of the fundamentals of cooking takes a while.

want to write an amazing book? you're going to have to write and write and write some more. you need to write hundreds of thousands of words to find your voice, maybe millions. then you need to edit those words and whittle them down to the most powerful version possible.

only after the repetitions have been completed will you understand which pieces of the task are fundamental to success.

getting to simple

now, finally, after trying many things and figuring out what to focus on and putting in enough reps, you can begin to simplify. you can trim away the fat because you know what is essential and what is unnecessary.

as the frenchman blaise pascal famously wrote in his provincial letters, “if i had more time, i would have written you a shorter letter.”

mastering the fundamentals is often the hardest and longest journey of all.things, good, write, figure, know, try, need, youre, thing, experts, focus, tryingpeak performance experts say things like, “you should focus.
of the many options in front of you, how do you know what to focus on?
if you're trying to gain muscle, track your workouts.
everyone wants to know the right time to simplify and focus on one thing, but nobody does.
getting to simplenow, finally, after trying many things and figuring out what to focus on and putting in enough reps, you can begin to simplify.focus and concentration can be difficult to master. sure, most people want to learn how to improve focus and boost concentration. but actually doing it? we live in a noisy world and constant distractions can make focus difficult.

luckily, this page contains the best ideas and top research on how to get and stay focused. we will break down the science behind sharpening your mind and paying attention to what matters. whether you're looking to focus on your goals in life or business, this page should cover everything you need to know.

you can click the links below to jump to a particular section or simply scroll down to read everything. at the end of this page, you’ll find a complete list of all the articles i have written on focus.

i. focus: what it is and how it works

ii. how to focus and increase your attention span

iii. mind-hacks for getting focused

i. focus: what it is and how it works

first things first. what is focus, really? experts define focus as the act of concentrating your interest or activity on something. that's a somewhat boring definition, but there is an important insight hiding inside that definition.

what is focus?

in order to concentrate on one thing you must, by default, ignore many other things.

here's a better way to put it:

focus can only occur when we have said yes to one option and no to all other options. in other words, elimination is a prerequisite for focus. as tim ferriss says, “what you don’t do determines what you can do.”

of course, focus doesn't require a permanent no, but it does require a present no. you always have the option to do something else later, but in the present moment focus requires that you only do one thing. focus is the key to productivity because saying no to every other option unlocks your ability to accomplish the one thing that is left.

now for the important question: what can we do to focus on the things that matter and ignore the things that don't?

before we talk about how to get started, let's pause for just a second. if you're enjoying this article on focus, then you'll probably find my other writing on performance and human behavior useful. each week, i share self-improvement tips based on proven scientific research through my free email newsletter.

to join now, just enter your email address below and click “get updates!”



don't see a signup form? send me a message here and i'll add you right away.

why can’t i focus?

most people don’t have trouble with focusing. they have trouble with deciding.

what i mean is that most healthy humans have a brain that is capable of focusing if we get the distractions out of the way. have you ever had a task that you absolutely had to get done? what happened? you got it done because the deadline made the decision for you. maybe you procrastinated beforehand, but once things became urgent and you were forced to make a decision, you took action.

instead of doing the difficult work of choosing one thing to focus on, we often convince ourselves that multitasking is a better option. this is ineffective.

here's why…



the myth of multitasking

technically, we are capable of doing two things at the same time. it is possible, for example, to watch tv while cooking dinner or to answer an email while talking on the phone.

what is impossible, however, is concentrating on two tasks at once. you're either listening to the tv and the overflowing pot of pasta is background noise, or you're tending to the pot of pasta and the tv is background noise. during any single instant, you are concentrating on one or the other.

multitasking forces your brain to switch your focus back and forth very quickly from one task to another. this wouldn't be a big deal if the human brain could transition seamlessly from one job to the next, but it can't.

have you ever been in the middle of writing an email when someone interrupts you? when the conversation is over and you get back to the message, it takes you a few minutes to get your bearings, remember what you were writing, and get back on track. something similar happens when you multitask. multitasking forces you to pay a mental price each time you interrupt one task and jump to another. in psychology terms, this mental price is called the switching cost.

switching cost is the disruption in performance that we experience when we switch our focus from one area to another. one study, published in the international journal of information management in 2003, found that the typical person checks email once every five minutes and that, on average, it takes 64 seconds to resume the previous task after checking your email.

in other words, because of email alone, we typically waste one out of every six minutes.

ii. how to focus and increase your attention span

let's talk about how to overcome our tendency to multitask and focus on one thing at a time. of the many options in front of you, how do you know what to focus on? how do you know where to direct your energy and attention? how do you determine the one thing that you should commit to doing?





warren buffett’s “2 list” strategy for focused attention

one of my favorite methods for focusing your attention on what matters and eliminating what doesn't comes from the famous investor warren buffett.

buffett uses a simple 3-step productivity strategy to help his employees determine their priorities and actions. you may find this method useful for making decisions and getting yourself to commit to doing one thing right away. here's how it works…

one day, buffett asked his personal pilot to go through the 3-step exercise.

step 1: buffett started by asking the pilot, named mike flint, to write down his top 25 career goals. so, flint took some time and wrote them down. (note: you could also complete this exercise with goals for a shorter timeline. for example, write down the top 25 things you want to accomplish this week.)

step 2: then, buffett asked flint to review his list and circle his top 5 goals. again, flint took some time, made his way through the list, and eventually decided on his 5 most important goals.

step 3: at this point, flint had two lists. the 5 items he had circled were list a, and the 20 items he had not circled were list b.

flint confirmed that he would start working on his top 5 goals right away. and that’s when buffett asked him about the second list, “and what about the ones you didn’t circle?”

flint replied, “well, the top 5 are my primary focus, but the other 20 come in a close second. they are still important so i’ll work on those intermittently as i see fit. they are not as urgent, but i still plan to give them a dedicated effort.”

to which buffett replied, “no. you’ve got it wrong, mike. everything you didn’t circle just became your avoid-at-all-cost list. no matter what, these things get no attention from you until you’ve succeeded with your top 5.”

i love buffett's method because it forces you to make hard decisions and eliminate things that might be good uses of time, but aren't great uses of time. so often the tasks that derail our focus are ones that we can easily rationalize spending time on.

this is just one way to narrow your focus and eliminate distractions. i've covered many other methods before like the ivy lee method and the eisenhower box. that said, no matter what method you use and no matter how committed you are, at some point your concentration and focus begin to fade. how can you increase your attention span and remain focused?

there are two simple steps you can take.



measure your results

the first thing you can do is to measure your progress.

focus often fades because of lack of feedback. your brain has a natural desire to know whether or not you are making progress toward your goals, and it is impossible to know that without getting feedback. from a practical standpoint, this means that we need to measure our results.

we all have areas of life that we say are important to us, but that we aren’t measuring. that's a shame because measurement maintains focus and concentration. the things we measure are the things we improve. it is only through numbers and clear tracking that we have any idea if we are getting better or worse.

the tasks i measured were the ones i remained focused on.

unfortunately, we often avoid measuring because we are fearful of what the numbers will tell us about ourselves. the trick is to realize that measuring is not a judgment about who you are, it's just feedback on where you are.

measure to discover, to find out, to understand. measure to get to know yourself better. measure to see if you're actually spending time on the things that are important to you. measure because it will help you focus on the things that matter and ignore the things that don’t.



focus on the process, not the event

the second thing you can do to maintain long-term focus is to concentrate on processes, not events. all too often, we see success as an event that can be achieved and completed.

here are some common examples:

many people see health as an event: “if i just lose 20 pounds, then i’ll be in shape.”

many people see entrepreneurship as an event: “if we could get our business featured in the new york times, then we’d be set.”

many people see art as an event: “if i could just get my work featured in a bigger gallery, then i’d have the credibility i need.”

those are just a few of the many ways that we categorize success as a single event. but if you look at the people who stay focused on their goals, you start to realize that it’s not the events or the results that make them different. it’s the commitment to the process. they fall in love with the daily practice, not the individual event.

what’s funny, of course, is that this focus on the process is what will allow you to enjoy the results anyway.

if you want to be a great writer, then having a best-selling book is wonderful. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of writing.

then having a best-selling book is wonderful. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of writing. if you want the world to know about your business, then it would be great to be featured in forbes magazine. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of marketing.

then it would be great to be featured in forbes magazine. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of marketing. if you want to be in the best shape of your life, then losing 20 pounds might be necessary. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of eating healthy and exercising consistently.

then losing 20 pounds might be necessary. but the only way to reach that result is to fall in love with the process of eating healthy and exercising consistently. if you want to become significantly better at anything, you have to fall in love with the process of doing it. you have to fall in love with building the identity of someone who does the work, rather than merely dreaming about the results that you want.

focusing on outcomes and goals is our natural tendency, but focusing on processes leads to more results over the long-run.

iii. concentration and focus mind-hacks

even after you've learned to love the process and know how to stay focused on your goals, the day-to-day implementation of those goals can still be messy. let's talk about some additional ways to improve concentration and make sure you're giving each task your focused attention.



how to improve concentration

here are few additional ways to improve your focus and get started on what matters.

choose an anchor task. one of the major improvements i've made recently is to assign one (and only one) priority to each work day. although i plan to complete other tasks during the day, my priority task is the one non-negotiable thing that must get done. i call this my “anchor task” because it is the mainstay that holds the rest of my day in place. the power of choosing one priority is that it naturally guides your behavior by forcing you to organize your life around that responsibility.

manage your energy, not your time. if a task requires your full attention, then schedule it for a time of day when you have the energy needed to focus. for example, i have noticed that my creative energy is highest in the morning. that’s when i’m fresh. that’s when i do my best writing. that’s when i make the best strategic decisions about my business. so, what do i do? i schedule creative tasks for the morning. all other business tasks are taken care of in the afternoon. this includes doing interviews, responding to emails, phone calls and skype chats, data analysis and number crunching. nearly every productivity strategy obsesses over managing your time better, but time is useless if you don’t have the energy you need to complete the task you are working on.

never check email before noon. focus is about eliminating distractions. email can be one of the biggest distractions of all. if i don’t check email at the beginning of the day, then i am able to spend the morning pursuing my own agenda rather than reacting to everybody else’s agenda. that’s a huge win because i’m not wasting mental energy thinking about all the messages in my inbox. i realize that waiting until the afternoon isn’t feasible for many people, but i’d like to offer a challenge. can you wait until 10am? what about 9am? 8:30am? the exact cutoff time doesn't matter. the point is to carve out time during your morning when you can focus on what is most important to you without letting the rest of the world dictate your mental state.

leave your phone in another room. i usually don’t see my phone for the first few hours of the day. it is much easier to do focused work when you don’t have any text messages, phone calls, or alerts interrupting your focus.

work in full screen mode. whenever i use an application on my computer, i use full screen mode. if i’m reading an article on the web, my browser takes up the whole screen. if i’m writing in evernote, i’m working in full screen mode. if i’m editing a picture in photoshop, it is the only thing i can see. i have set up my desktop so that the menu bar disappears automatically. when i am working, i can’t see the time, the icons of other applications, or any other distractions on the screen. it’s funny how big of a difference this makes for my focus and concentration. if you can see an icon on your screen, then you will be reminded to click on it occasionally. however, if you remove the visual cue, then the urge to be distracted subsides in a few minutes.

remove all tasks that could distract from early morning focus. i love doing the most important thing first each day because the urgencies of the day have not crept in yet. i have gone a little far in this regard in that i have even pushed my first meal off until about noon each day. i have been intermittent fasting for three years now (here are some lessons learned), which means that i typically eat most of my meals between 12pm and 8pm. the result is that i get some additional time in the morning to do focused work rather than cook breakfast.

regardless of what strategy you use, just remember that anytime you find the world distracting you, all you need to do is commit to one thing. in the beginning, you don’t even have to succeed. you just need to get started.



where to go from here

i hope you found this short guide on focus useful. if you’re looking for more ideas on how to improve your focus and concentration, feel free to browse the full list of articles below.

all focus articles

this is a complete list of articles i have written on focus. enjoy!

things, task, guide, concentration, ultimate, thing, love, process, goals, list, focus, way, day, improvesure, most people want to learn how to improve focus and boost concentration.
now for the important question: what can we do to focus on the things that matter and ignore the things that don't?
focus on the process, not the eventthe second thing you can do to maintain long-term focus is to concentrate on processes, not events.
how to improve concentrationhere are few additional ways to improve your focus and get started on what matters.
if you’re looking for more ideas on how to improve your focus and concentration, feel free to browse the full list of articles below.as the course of evolution spirals upward and downward, collective humanity witnesses glorious times, and horrific ones. the need to go to extremes, and then to course-correct in order to restore balance, seems an integral function of the human psyche. while what we see around us globally on a daily basis may turn our stomach and make us sick with anxiety, sadness, and fear, we can do something about it. perhaps, everything that is falling apart around us is doing so for good reason; it simply has to go.

in this crazy world we live in, where so much seems to change minute-to-minute and so much seems out of our control, one thing remains within our immediate control—taking back ownership of and responsibility for ourselves. when we do that, we can be more effective in our response to change in a way that moves us forward and upward in the evolutionary spiral, both personally and collectively.

if life has gotten away from you, if the demands upon you are making you feel overwhelmed, anxious, depressed, and/or deeply concerned about the future, if your work-life balance is unfairly skewed away from quality time with yourself, your family, your interests and hobbies, and/or your community, then it’s time to stop and refocus on what’s most important to you and find a way back to all that really matters. the idea is to evaluate what you’re actually doing with and for yourself every day, determine how essential it is to you, and make the necessary changes that best accommodate your needs, interests, and desires.

of course, the practical matters of life, such as career and finances, must be carefully considered in order to allow for a balanced view. for example, you have to understand if it’s practical and feasible for you to cut back on your hours at work, or if you can work closer to home or even from home, or what it would take for you to change careers by going back to school to retrain, or if you can split your job/career to include opportunities to not only make money but to put your interests and passions to work for you, or if you can cut or consolidate your expenses in exchange for having more hours that are not work-related or to pursue other more important interests.

here are some essential things to consider when you decide to refocus your attention in order to determine what is most important in your life, and how to get there.

1. determine what things you value the most about your life. choose five of these as a starting point, a basic model around which to structure the life you are trying to create. when you consciously make these choices you remind yourself what things in your life you can’t and won’t do without. these represent the backbone of your life. all too often we forget what people and events have shaped and continue to shape our lives. they mold us into the people we are and the people we want to become. they support and encourage us in every possible way.

2. decide what commitments are most important to you. evaluate which commitments are in keeping with the five things you value the most about your life. commitments are obligations that you enter into and represent your promise to steadfastly see a relationship/project/contract to its conclusion. keep your essential commitments, renegotiate them if necessary, but consider completing the existing commitments you’re obligated to complete and refuse to take on any new ones. that way you focus on those commitments that are most essential to you and your life.

3. assess the way you use your time. most of us have a daily routine, with many fixed activities and chores. evaluate which things are absolutely necessary and important for the five areas you identified as having the most value for your life.

how much time do you spend communicating? assess the amount of time spent online, emailing, texting, and on your cell phone. how can you cut back on the amount of time you spend doing these activities?

assess how much time you spend on a daily basis watching tv, listening to the radio, on the internet, reading newspapers, and magazines. consider decreasing your consumption and instead, receive basic information from a worthy source(s) only once a day. so much that is presented in the media is repetitive and redundant. people have become afraid that they will miss out on something if they aren’t constantly in touch.

what would you do with all the time you’d have available if much of these activities were radically decreased or curtailed?

4. get rid of clutter in every area of your life. do you really need everything you have? give anything away you have not used in the last two years. certainly, someone else can use what you no longer need. you can even sell items, furniture, clothing, etc. you no longer need.

likewise, periodically get rid of emotional and psychological clutter, those ways of being that no longer serve you. too often, we continue to do things routinely, often in a way that has little to do with how we have evolved over the course of time. we need to let old things go in order to make room for the new things and ways of being that truly reflect who we are and where we are.

5. spend more time with the people that matter to you. assess how much quality time you actually spend with family and close friends. (for many of you, this will probably be one of the five things you identified as most important to you.) as life evolves more people may enter our sphere. these people may fall into various categories of importance—acquaintances, colleagues, friends, partners. it’s necessary to sort out how we interact with these various people and to assess the meaning of each of these relationships. time is precious—we need to use this time wisely and with those that matter most.

6. make time to be alone. how much time do you regularly make for yourself? when was the last time you did what you love, what you feel passionately about? give yourself more time (and the permission) to express your creativity. take care of your body, mind, and spirit which allows you to really feel alive and present in your life. remember that before there was so much information at our fingertips, we weren’t staring down at screens on devices that represent so much of our “connection” these days. take a walk and reacquaint yourself with the sheer beauty around you. make each breath count.things, spend, important, need, order, life, necessary, essential, way, focus, ways, whats, commitmentshere are some essential things to consider when you decide to refocus your attention in order to determine what is most important in your life, and how to get there.
when you consciously make these choices you remind yourself what things in your life you can’t and won’t do without.
that way you focus on those commitments that are most essential to you and your life.
evaluate which things are absolutely necessary and important for the five areas you identified as having the most value for your life.
take care of your body, mind, and spirit which allows you to really feel alive and present in your life.you’re so deeply focused on the subjects that you need to do well in to get into the university you want that one day you take a breather and realise that you don’t know very much else at all. say you want to study engineering, and you’re taking maths, further maths, physics and chemistry at as-level. you’ve memorised more formulae than you can shake a bunsen burner at. you know enough laws named after 17th century scientists to fill an alphabet. you’ve never met a graph you didn’t like. but once your exams are done and the summer holidays roll around, you realise that you haven’t read anything that isn’t a textbook in months and you’re hazy on who the prime minister is.

nor is this a problem restricted to prospective engineers. all subject areas can be similarly prone to this painful intensity of focus. it’s not a bad way to be when you’re deep in exam season. but what happens when you emerge the other side, and decide you want to be a well-rounded human being capable of holding a conversation on topics unrelated to engineering? we’ve compiled this list of recommended things to read – some magazines, some books, some assorted others – that will bring you up to speed on any topic you might care to think of.

the economist is a weekly news magazine, edited in london but sold around the globe. it’s noted for being a genuinely international overview of economics and politics; its stock-in-trade is stories exploring things like the economic and political ramifications of, say, problems with gathering the sweet potato harvest of burundi.

the side effect of this is that a lot of people buy the economist as a statement of their own intelligence and cosmopolitanism without actually reading it. the magazine cultivates the image of being read only by the intelligent and successful, with advertising saying things like, “i never read the economist… management trainee aged 42” and “stop having to remind people who you are”. buying it and actually reading it is likely to prove a considerable boost to your knowledge not only of the current affairs that most regular newspaper-readers will be aware of, but also of under-reported events of the kind that we looked at in this article.

if the economist isn’t to your taste, then you might want to consider a different news magazine along similar lines; few address international issues in a comparably wide-ranging way, but most offer a chance to get up to speed with current affairs if you don’t have time for a daily newspaper. the editorial stance of the economist is classical liberalism. in the uk, a more right-wing option is offered by the spectator, while the new statesman takes a more left-wing stance.

if you’re interested less in current affairs and more in general intellectual life, you might wish to consider a subscription to the london review of books (or a similar publication – the dublin or new york review of books might suit you better depending on where you live). the lrb is a fortnightly journal of literary and intellectual essays: the current issue has essays on the iliad, on disliking poetry, on the republican nomination for the 2016 presidential elections in the usa, and on the writer joseph mitchell. most issues are comparably eclectic.

even if you have no interest whatsoever in a given essay’s subject matter, they are normally a pleasure to read simply because of the unusually high quality of the writing. being carried along by exceptional prose is a wonderful way to gain knowledge of subjects you otherwise wouldn’t care to explore.

3. a brief history of time

the first of our specific book recommendations: a brief history of time, by stephen hawking, is the best-selling popular science book of all time. written in 1988, it looks at the origin and nature of the universe – and updated versions are available for the areas in which our understanding has progressed since its first publication. hawking was famously warned that for every equation he included, his readership would halve, so he included only one. that doesn’t mean that this book is easy to read, though hawking does his best. here’s an extract:

“the value of the grand unification energy is not very well known, but it would probably have to be at least a thousand million million gev… a machine that was powerful enough to accelerate particles to the grand unification energy would have to be as big as the solar system – and would be unlikely to be funded in the present economic climate.”

the first three or four chapters are reasonably easy to follow even if your maths and physics is relatively limited. after that, it gets trickier – but for the sake of having at least same grasp of the answers to some of the biggest questions humanity has ever posed, it’s worth giving it a shot.

if a brief history of time was a bit too mathsy for you, here’s an alternative popular science book that will boost your general knowledge in unexpected ways. written by randall munroe, a former nasa roboticist and the author of the xkcd webcomic, what if offers ‘serious scientific answers to absurd hypothetical questions’, such as “what would it be like to swim in a lake on the moon?” and “what if i made a lava lamp out of real lava?” these are all illustrated with line drawings of stick figures, and are extremely funny. some of them are also available online.

but while you’re sniggering over munroe’s brilliantly literal answer to the question “what would happen if everyone on earth stood as close to each other as they could and jumped, everyone landing on the ground at the same instant?”, you might also find that you’re learning bits and pieces of science. the twitter account @whatifnumbers demonstrates the breadth of research that munroe carries out in order to answer these questions, by posting the odder bits of numerical trivia he finds along the way. you might find yourself learning about the effects of neutrinos or details of undersea geology while you enjoy the bizarre things people ask about cows. it’s a very pleasant way to expand your general knowledge – and you can always submit questions for consideration yourself, too.

oxford university press has so far published over 500 very short introductions, which are books of around 150 pages or 35,000 words, designed to introduce the reader to a particular academic topic in a balanced and comprehensive way. they cover topics from accounting, advertising and african american religion to wittgenstein, world music and world war ii. they’re all written by experts in their fields, which means they are all written with the passion and dedication of someone who truly loves the subject they’re writing about. it also means they’re written in a variety of different styles, reflective of the typical styles of the academic fields they represent, which makes reading several a pleasantly varied experience.

reading all of them would cost over £4,000 (at £8 each) and take the average reader more than a thousand hours to get through, so we don’t necessarily recommend doing that. but it’s certainly worth picking up one or two on a subject you’d like to know more about – and if you’re hooked, each one includes tips for further reading if you’d like more than an introduction to the subject.

as a celebration of the 80th anniversary of penguin books, penguin have launched a series called ‘little black classics’ – pocket-sized 80p books from 80 of the world’s greatest writers, historical and contemporary. from thomas hardy to dante, anton chekhov to christina rossetti, the books are short stories, essays, poems and sometimes extracts from novels, which are all only 64 pages long. if you want to own them all, there’s even a box set.

the great thing about the little black classics is that they offer a taster of the world’s greatest writers, but without the daunting length of most of their better-known books – particularly relevant given that their writers include charles dickens and herman melville. you can get to know their style and subject matter without feeling the need to finish an enormous tome. the other advantage is that you frequently end up encountering lesser-known writing; for instance, oscar wilde’s novel the picture of dorian gray is very widely read, but his short story in the little black classics, ‘lord arthur savile’s crime’ is delightful and comparatively ignored.

7. thinking, fast and slow

the writer of thinking, fast and slow, daniel kahneman is a psychologist in the unusual position of having won the nobel prize for economics, as he challenged the theory that our economic behaviour is based on rational decision-making. thinking, fast and slow is summary of much of his research, presented in a very readable and accessible way.

the gist of the book is that we think in two different ways: there are the decisions we make quickly, based on instinct and emotion, and the decisions we make slowly, based on reason and logic. kahneman’s insight appears when he points out all the different cognitive biases that arise not only from quick, emotional thinking, but also from the modes of thinking that we – mistakenly – believe are when we are working more rationally. it’s worth reading if you want not only to improve your general knowledge, but also your cognitive skills – and the intersection of psychology and economics that it represents is pretty fascinating, too.

twitter can be a remarkable mechanism for improving your general knowledge in little 140-character chunks. there are countless twitter accounts offering a daily fact, but these are useful for pub quizzes, amusing your friends and not much else (e.g. the qi elves’ recent tweet: “two-thirds of an octopus’s brain is in its arms”). other accounts provide similarly enjoyable trivia, such as @samuelpepys, which tweets from pepys’ 1662 diary in real time, or @realtimewwii, which does the same for the second world war.

more valuable for the sake of improving your awareness of current affairs is to follow @bbcbreaking, which tweets breaking news. you won’t be overwhelmed by tweets – there are only a handful every day – but all the same, you’ll stay in touch with what’s happening, both in the uk and internationally. every tweet includes a link to the full story on the bbc website, so you can find out more if you want to.

the great advantage of the bbc over other news providers – at least in the uk – is that it is required to remain entirely neutral, and is furiously scrutinised for any signs of bias. one memorable month of complaints to the bbc saw 813 people complaining of its pro-israeli/anti-palestinian bias – and another 938 complaining of its pro-palestinian/anti-israeli bias. so unlike other news sources, you can be reasonably sure that the reporting you receive is objective (or at the very least, that a large number of people will complain if it isn’t).

as we hope this article has shown, there are a vast range of options out there beyond revision guides and textbooks if you want to expand your general knowledge. beyond things you can read, there are also online courses you can take – and of course, you can explore brand-new subjects or top up your existing knowledge on one of our summer school courses.

image credits: book shelvesthings, written, thinking, general, books, book, youre, read, knowledge, enhance, wayif a brief history of time was a bit too mathsy for you, here’s an alternative popular science book that will boost your general knowledge in unexpected ways.
it’s a very pleasant way to expand your general knowledge – and you can always submit questions for consideration yourself, too.
it’s worth reading if you want not only to improve your general knowledge, but also your cognitive skills – and the intersection of psychology and economics that it represents is pretty fascinating, too.
twitter can be a remarkable mechanism for improving your general knowledge in little 140-character chunks.
as we hope this article has shown, there are a vast range of options out there beyond revision guides and textbooks if you want to expand your general knowledge.to focus you need to eliminate the distractions, commit to one thing and become great at it.

to know what to focus on, try different things for some time until something comes easily and you can master the core fundamentals of the task. this way you can get a sense of what fits you and set yourself up for success by focusing on what works best.things, task, simple, figure, success, try, thing, works, experts, getting, focus, set, way, senseto focus you need to eliminate the distractions, commit to one thing and become great at it.
to know what to focus on, try different things for some time until something comes easily and you can master the core fundamentals of the task.
this way you can get a sense of what fits you and set yourself up for success by focusing on what works best.eventually, you have to find out “something that came easily” so that you are able to focus on building one business rather than trying to find an idea. only after that discovered about figuring out what to focus on.

by trying many different things, you can get a sense of what comes more easily to you and set yourself up for success. it is much easier to focus on something that’s working than struggle along with a bad idea.things, easily, simple, figure, working, success, idea, experts, getting, focus, struggle, set, trying, thatseventually, you have to find out “something that came easily” so that you are able to focus on building one business rather than trying to find an idea.
only after that discovered about figuring out what to focus on.
by trying many different things, you can get a sense of what comes more easily to you and set yourself up for success.
it is much easier to focus on something that’s working than struggle along with a bad idea.their working memory (miller, 1956). for example, the chess masters described above considered only a subset of possible chess moves, but those moves were generally superior to the ones considered by the lesser ranked players. experts have not only acquired knowledge, but are also good at retrieving the knowledge that is relevant to a particular task. in the language of cognitive scientists, experts’ knowledge is “conditionalized” —it includes a specification of the contexts in which it is useful (simon, 1980; glaser, 1992). knowledge that is not conditionalized is often “inert” because it is not activated, even though it is relevant (whitehead, 1929).

the concept of conditionalized knowledge has implications for the design of curriculum, instruction, and assessment practices that promote effective learning. many forms of curricula and instruction do not help students conditionalize their knowledge: “textbooks are much more explicit in enunciating the laws of mathematics or of nature than in saying anything about when these laws may be useful in solving problems” (simon, 1980:92). it is left largely to students to generate the condition-action pairs required for solving novel problems.

one way to help students learn about conditions of applicability is to assign word problems that require students to use appropriate concepts and formulas (lesgold, 1984, 1988; simon, 1980). if well designed, these problems can help students learn when, where, and why to use the knowledge they are learning. sometimes, however, students can solve sets of practice problems but fail to conditionalize their knowledge because they know which chapter the problems came from and so automatically use this information to decide which concepts and formulas are relevant. practice problems that are organized into very structured worksheets can also cause this problem. sometimes students who have done well on such assignments—and believe that they are learning—are unpleasantly surprised when they take tests in which problems from the entire course are randomly presented so there are no clues about where they appeared in a text (bransford, 1979).

the concept of conditionalized knowledge also has important implications for assessment practices that provide feedback about learning. many types of tests fail to help teachers and students assess the degree to which the students’ knowledge is conditionalized. for example, students might be asked whether the formula that quantifies the relationship between mass and energy is e=mc, e=mc2, or e=mc3. a correct answer requires no knowledge of the conditions under which it is appropriate to use the formula. similarly, students in a literature class might be asked to explain the meaning of familiar proverbs, such as “he who hesitates is lost” or “too many cooks spoil the broth.” the ability to explain the meaning of each proverb provides no guarantee that students will know the conditions under which either proverb is useful. such knowledge is important because, when viewed solely as propositions, proverbs often contradict one another. to use themsimon, conditionalized, problems, edition, brain, relevant, learning, mind, school, students, learn, knowledge, useful, expanded, help, conditions, experiencein the language of cognitive scientists, experts’ knowledge is “conditionalized” —it includes a specification of the contexts in which it is useful (simon, 1980; glaser, 1992).
the concept of conditionalized knowledge has implications for the design of curriculum, instruction, and assessment practices that promote effective learning.
if well designed, these problems can help students learn when, where, and why to use the knowledge they are learning.
the concept of conditionalized knowledge also has important implications for assessment practices that provide feedback about learning.
many types of tests fail to help teachers and students assess the degree to which the students’ knowledge is conditionalized.increasingly, executives recognize that people are central to strategy. optimizing the time and development of technical experts who deliver the most value for the company—be they programmers, data scientists, nanotechnologists, biologists, or others—should be among most organizations’ main priorities. although they often make up no more than 10% of an organization’s workforce, experts have an outsize effect on the organization’s performance; without them, companies would lose their competitive edge.

however, the experts who create the most business value vary by industry and even by company, and expertise is not static. today’s strategic advantage might become tomorrow’s necessary commodity—or it may fall out of favor entirely. for instance, electromechanical engineering was strategic for many companies in the 1980s as they began adopting computer technology. however, with the advancement of automation in the 1990s, it became nonstrategic (and many times outmoded).

in our experience, companies across the board struggle to attract, retain, and develop these expert employees. with no clear career path for moving up in the organization, many experts languish and become frustrated, and those who wish to climb the ranks may choose to transition from their area of expertise to management—or they may simply become disengaged. the latter scenario presents a real risk of weakening the value of the company’s intellectual property. beyond the potential for lost revenue, word travels fast among experts and their peers: a company known for stagnation is not seen as a desirable place to work.

to attract and retain the best experts, companies must adopt a new mind-set on managing these employees and the hr policies that support them. to that end, some of the knowledge-driven companies we’ve worked with have developed “experts’ policies,” which we have used as benchmarks, that effectively shift incentives and structures to better match the needs of their experts. these policies acknowledge and define efforts to maximize the development and continuous nurturing of employees who create scientific and technical value. furthermore, such policies may define opportunities for experts’ professional development parallel to their peers on more traditional managerial or leadership tracks. such development can improve an expert’s ability to focus on performing his or her work, creating new knowledge, and transforming the organization through collective expertise. hr departments can play a crucial role as well, helping define the values of the company and craft effective strategies to keep experts on a value-creating path. the result is a more agile organization that can better foresee and adapt to industry trends.

the need for an experts’ policy

one of the key objectives of an experts’ policy is to align an organization’s technological competency portfolio with its overall strategic goals—not only for today’s direction but also in the years to come. this task sounds simple but can be quite difficult in practice, as experts tend to value technical accomplishments or conquering self-imposed goals. as a result, they are often less invested in adding value to strategic objectives. in some cases, experts feel their specific expertise holds the most value in itself, whereas a strategic perspective should assess the usefulness of that expertise within a business context. therefore, as technology evolves and industry trends shift, knowledge-based companies often struggle to define the expertise needed in the future.

another objective of an experts’ policy is to ensure that companies attract and retain a valuable expert workforce. to do so, companies will need to develop a reputation as a place where suitable candidates from academic and technical circles want to work. developing such a reputation requires fostering existing talented employees as well as paving the way for subsequent generations of experts.

an experts’ policy should also create room for unique growth paths. experts are often summoned as emergency technicians to solve problems encountered during a project, but these assignments can detract from their other, more valuable responsibilities. rather than tackling long-term goals related to an organization’s strategy or the innovation of new products, the expert is relegated to putting out fires. this can be particularly frustrating when a project goes in a direction that experts would have initially advised against. the best-case scenario is to find middle ground between short- and long-term responsibilities.

finally, an experts’ policy can help overcome feelings of territoriality by building trust between disparate departments. in pharmaceuticals, for instance, there are chemists who have been leading research in new treatments for years—if not decades. now, after the game-changing rise of biology as an input in pharma, breaking down the silos between the disciplines has led to biochemist solutions, which are promising options for new medications. to initiate such collaboration, leading pharma organizations have encouraged biology and chemistry departments to share both successes and failures and assembled multidisciplinary teams to look for new, potentially overlooked, disruptive solutions.

corporate leaders and experts will need to share a sense of ownership of valuable knowledge. ultimately, it is the responsibility of leaders to ensure that experts know the organizational strategy and that they are contributing to it. for example, in the healthcare industry, experts have been integral in the move from chemical to biological materials, completely reshaping the business in the process. in the electrical engineering industry, experts who discovered how to build permanent magnets with rare-earth minerals have transformed the business model of renewable energy with cheaper windmills. and in the aerospace industry, the fly-by-wire technology developed by experts at one company has replaced manual flight controls with a more automated interface.

retaining and developing the current expert workforce

one of the thorniest issues for leaders to navigate when developing an experts’ policy is deciding what to do with who they have. indeed, how leaders choose to incentivize, reward, and develop experts will determine the future of the organization. the difference could mean setting industry trends or merely trying to adapt to them.

typically, talented nontechnical employees are given a clear path to move up in an organization—taking on the responsibilities of management and executive leadership. yet experts are usually offered no such path that allows them to continue to deliver value through their expertise; in fact, they may “defect” to leadership for this very reason, enticed by the organizational chart or compensation packages. the primary element of a successful experts’ policy is that it defines a distinct upward mobility track to ensure experts direct their knowledge to where their strategic value is highest. such paths can offer experts other options, including roles as specialists, advisers, or even managers of other experts (figure).

of course, how individuals move up through these roles and find their path at the company is paramount (see sidebar, “the promotion process”).

with experts on the right track professionally, the experts’ policy should help keep the roles rewarding, both financially and professionally. this can be done with expert-specific versions of common retention and development initiatives, including compensation schemes, soft skills training, networking, and the flexibility to pursue research interests.

compensation schemes

companies tend to reward employees for superior performance using a standard set of key performance indicators—meeting sales goals, reducing costs, and so forth. expert performance is harder to measure, given its nature of long-term research and development. management can’t very well penalize experts who have not yet made a breakthrough discovery.

what companies can do, however, is define and assess the right accountabilities, such as expertise (using the number of patent applications and publications as a measurement, for example); advisory capabilities (especially as they relate to advising top management); innovation (moving from expertise to value creation—such as the mathematicians who study the behavior of propellant smoke after an ariane 5 rocket launches, aiming to make future launches safer by reducing turbulence); reputation and visibility within scientific communities; management of knowledge and intellectual property; and involvement in specific projects.

soft skills training

leaders often mistakenly believe that experts don’t need further training; they are already experts, after all. but given their deep integration in their fields, experts tend to communicate in technical jargon, which can be confusing or even off-putting. soft skills training focused on improving communication can help experts become more convincing, more impactful, and more interesting, both for their colleagues and for clients or customers. at a higher level, bridging this gap can help experts become more persuasive within the organization, making them more influential. this in turn could benefit the organization, as communicating between departments becomes easier, as well as set the stage for experts to be more effective advisers on company strategy.

networking

networking is a crucial aspect of supporting experts’ professional development—perhaps even more so than for other employees, given experts’ tight-knit technical communities. connecting with external universities, research institutions, and think tanks can keep experts energized and informed of current trends. experts’ policies can facilitate these connections by providing the experts with leeway to attend conferences, coauthor research papers, and make rounds on the lecture circuit—all of which may require time away from their day jobs. however, the rewards can be great for both parties: experts are enabled to participate fully in the community in which they seek renown, and the company’s profile is raised thanks to the experts’ participation.

flexibility to pursue research interests

institutional support to innovate new concepts and products can be a game-changing incentive for expert employees. indeed, such freedom to experiment—and even to fail—is key to staying ahead of industry trends. as such, it is integral to both the growth of the organization and the development of the expert. for instance, with the rise of open innovation, internal experts have been assigned to identify promising external research organizations to partner with in the early phases of a project. others have been asked to lead the creation of chairs with prominent university labs. and companies such as 3m and google allow their employees to spend up to 20% of their company time as they wish. the roi of these flextime policies has been significant, in terms of both value creation by serendipity (such as the famously accidental invention of the post-it note) and also retention of critical expertise (which has been well documented in organizations such as airbus and 3m). at the extreme, experts may benefit from sabbaticals that allow them to focus on their own research passions—which they can then translate, refreshed, back to their day jobs.

attracting the next generation of experts

all companies run into similar problems in ensuring they have the right expert talent as the required expertise evolves. it can take years—even decades—to develop a seasoned expert capable of advising on not only his or her realm of expertise but also how it relates to company strategy. in practice, many such experts are past the midpoint of their career and perhaps winding down. a common mistake made by corporate leaders is allowing these experts to phase out of their roles and not preparing for the next generation. electrical engineering is an example of a discipline that needs to move quickly, as well as one in which expertise investments are high. today, with the promise of renewable energies, energy companies are moving from a focus on creating energy, such as designing high-efficiency generators, to efficiently storing energy produced by windmills or tidal generators. however, these promising new fields of expertise must be supported by a new generation of experts to become true strategic differentiators.

whatever the conditions of a specific industry, to attract—and subsequently retain—the best people, companies need to craft their experts’ policies to meet the following objectives: gauge critical competencies, maintain the right number of experts, and increase employer value proposition.

gauge critical competencies

competencies almost inevitably become obsolete, and companies will need to not only connect their experts with their strategies but also engage them in strategic workforce planning. take the aircraft industry, for example. fuselage experts move from one competency to the next because each is aligned with the company’s strategy: expertise in metallic fuselages was replaced by expertise in composite fuselages more than a decade ago when the strategic target for airplane manufacturers shifted to reducing the weight of planes to limit fuel consumption. in another example, new regulations or market expectations can alter a company’s portfolio of expertise: some will become obsolete, others will gain importance, and still others will create a new need. similarly, many cities are concerned with the pollution generated by their airports, whether it be noise or poor air quality. as a result, expertise in developing so-called green aircrafts has become a key competitive advantage for aircraft manufacturers.

because strategic expertise portfolios are volatile, an efficient way to better anticipate critical competencies is twofold: first, promote interdisciplinary collaboration between experts to keep internal teams in a state of heightened vigilance; and second, facilitate innovation to learn about and acquire new opportunities from others.

maintain the right number of experts

part of being perceived as an attractive place to work is making sure enticing projects (both scientifically and financially so) are thoughtfully staffed to give everyone a meaningful role. likewise, it’s important that projects aren’t understaffed, spreading talent too thin. from benchmarks we established by working with companies with experts’ policies, we found that experts constitute between 5% and 10% of each organization’s workforce. at less than 5%, investment in expertise is insufficient to manage risks of obsolescence and appropriate succession planning, and more than 10% may result in a lack of focus on core expertise. one way of ensuring that the right number of experts is assigned to a project is to conduct regular performance reviews, focusing on whether the experts feel valued and fulfilled.

we did notice, however, that an excess of experts could still be valuable and work toward generating entrepreneurial decisions or creating new subsidiaries or spin-offs. depending on the performance review results, the organization may choose to create a new venture.

increase employer value proposition

a company that is seen as valuable to experts in both technical and academic fields will have more market value. having a “phd-friendly” or “postdoc-friendly” reputation will excite the scientific community and attract new and promising experts. a few ways of improving an organization’s reputation with intellectual and scientific communities are to map academic labs of interest, deepen the relationship with them through long-lasting connections, and recruit phds. in addition, companies can craft policies that include phd study as counting toward years of seniority, asking the experts to become company ambassadors to the labs.

the path forward—managing the portfolio

experts’ policies help ensure that the company has a continuing supply of the right people in the right places at the right time, for today and—even more important—for tomorrow. these policies help map the strategic capabilities of the organization by answering questions about where it possesses the most and least expertise, where it is in danger of losing valuable knowledge, and what competencies missing from the group’s portfolio are likely to be needed in the future.

proactively managing the portfolio of expertise gives companies the ability to foresee trends, adapt more quickly, and, ultimately, increase value. experts who are happier are more likely to create new ideas that will determine their organization’s—and perhaps even their industry’s—future. capitalizing on those breakthroughs and translating them to strategic value are key to increasing companies’ competitive edge.

sidebar: the promotion process

the promotion process provides both hard and soft business benefits. on the one hand, it provides motivation and attractive career prospects for professionals who otherwise might advance only by entering management. on the other hand, by creating a development model with as much influence as a career in management, it builds an important relationship between business context and expertise.

while the majority of promotion processes are influenced by managers and overseen by hr, the promotion of experts must also involve the experts themselves, as peers. one way of successfully determining candidates for expert roles, which we have seen benefit organizations time and time again, is to ask them to submit an application consisting of three sections that cover different areas of performance:

person: this section details the candidate’s knowledge, experience, and potential. the individual must have earned recognition for extraordinary competency throughout the company and beyond.

position: this section assesses how well the individual adheres to the organization’s overall strategy and goals. what is the value of his or her area of specific expertise for the company value creation? could the expertise become obsolete? is it possible to foresee how this expertise will continue to create competitive advantage? what are the mid- and long-term needs (qualitative and quantitative)?

performance: this section examines the candidate’s contributions to the group of experts he or she will join. how many patents does the applicant have to his or her name? has the candidate given internal or external conferences? how active is he or she in the field? has the candidate taken steps to transfer his or her knowledge?

about the author

hervé borensztejn (hborensztejn@heidrick.com) is the managing partner of heidrick consulting in europe, the middle east, and africa; he is based in the paris office.expertise, company, companies, value, expert, technical, experts, getting, industry, organizations, strategic, policiesthis task sounds simple but can be quite difficult in practice, as experts tend to value technical accomplishments or conquering self-imposed goals.
for example, in the healthcare industry, experts have been integral in the move from chemical to biological materials, completely reshaping the business in the process.
networkingnetworking is a crucial aspect of supporting experts’ professional development—perhaps even more so than for other employees, given experts’ tight-knit technical communities.
experts’ policies can facilitate these connections by providing the experts with leeway to attend conferences, coauthor research papers, and make rounds on the lecture circuit—all of which may require time away from their day jobs.
from benchmarks we established by working with companies with experts’ policies, we found that experts constitute between 5% and 10% of each organization’s workforce.you must first be logged in to save this document.

you must first be logged in to save this document.

all businesses have access to an extensive pool of knowledge - whether this is their understanding of customers' needs and the business environment or the skills and experience of staff.

the way a business gathers, shares and exploits this knowledge can be central to its ability to develop successfully. this doesn't just apply to huge multinational companies. knowledge management can benefit everyone from a local newsstand to a manufacturing firm.

this guide explains the basic sources of knowledge available to your business, how you can best harness and exploit this information and how to create a knowledge strategy for your business.

what is knowledge in a business?

using knowledge in your business isn't necessarily about thinking up clever new products and services, or devising ingenious new ways of selling them. it's much more straightforward.

useful and important knowledge already exists in your business. it can be found in:

the experience of your employees

of your employees the designs and processes for your goods and services

for your goods and services your files of documents (whether held digitally, on paper or both)

(whether held digitally, on paper or both) your plans for future activities, such as ideas for new products or services

the challenge is harnessing this knowledge in a coherent and productive way.

existing forms of knowledge

you've probably done market research into the need for your business to exist in the first place. if nobody wanted what you're selling, you wouldn't be trading. you can tailor this market knowledge to target particular customers with specific types of product or service.

into the need for your business to exist in the first place. if nobody wanted what you're selling, you wouldn't be trading. you can tailor this market knowledge to target particular customers with specific types of product or service. your files of documents from and about customers and suppliers hold a wealth of information which can be invaluable both in developing new products or services and improving existing ones.

from and about customers and suppliers hold a wealth of information which can be invaluable both in developing new products or services and improving existing ones. your employees are likely to have skills and experience that you can use as an asset. having staff who are knowledgeable can be invaluable in setting you apart from competitors. you should make sure that your employees' knowledge and skills are passed on to their colleagues and successors wherever possible, e.g. through brainstorming sessions, training courses and documentation. see the page in this guide: create a knowledge strategy for your business.

your understanding of what customers want, combined with your employees' know-how, can be regarded as your knowledge base.

using this knowledge in the right way can help you run your business more efficiently, decrease business risks and exploit opportunities to the full. this is known as the knowledge advantage.

basic sources of knowledge

your sources of business knowledge could include:

customer knowledge - you should know your customers' needs and what they think of you. you may be able to develop mutually beneficial knowledge sharing relationships with customers by talking to them about their future requirements, and discussing how you might be able to develop your own products or services to ensure that you meet their needs.

- you should know your customers' needs and what they think of you. you may be able to develop mutually beneficial knowledge sharing relationships with customers by talking to them about their future requirements, and discussing how you might be able to develop your own products or services to ensure that you meet their needs. employee and supplier relationships - seek the opinions of your employees and your suppliers - they'll have their own impressions of how you're performing. you can use formal surveys to gather this knowledge or ask for their views on a more informal basis.

- seek the opinions of your employees and your suppliers - they'll have their own impressions of how you're performing. you can use formal surveys to gather this knowledge or ask for their views on a more informal basis. market knowledge - watch developments in your sector. how are your competitors performing? how much are they charging? are there any new entrants to the market? have any significant new products been launched?

- watch developments in your sector. how are your competitors performing? how much are they charging? are there any new entrants to the market? have any significant new products been launched? knowledge of the business environment - your business can be affected by numerous outside factors. developments in politics, the economy, technology, society and the environment could all affect your business' development, so you need to keep yourself informed. you could consider setting up a team of employees to monitor and report on changes in the business world.

- your business can be affected by numerous outside factors. developments in politics, the economy, technology, society and the environment could all affect your business' development, so you need to keep yourself informed. you could consider setting up a team of employees to monitor and report on changes in the business world. professional associations and trade bodies - their publications, academic publications, government publications, reports from research bodies, trade and technical magazines.

- their publications, academic publications, government publications, reports from research bodies, trade and technical magazines. trade exhibitions and conferences - these can provide an easy way of finding out what your competitors are doing and to see the latest innovations in your sector.

- these can provide an easy way of finding out what your competitors are doing and to see the latest innovations in your sector. product research and development - scientific and technical research and development can be a vital source of knowledge that can help you create innovative new products - retaining your competitive edge.

- scientific and technical research and development can be a vital source of knowledge that can help you create innovative new products - retaining your competitive edge. organisational memory - be careful not to lose the skills or experience your business has built up. you need to find formal ways of sharing your employees' knowledge about the best ways of doing things. for example, you might create procedural guidance based on your employees' best practice. see the page in this guide: create a knowledge strategy for your business.

- be careful not to lose the skills or experience your business has built up. you need to find formal ways of sharing your employees' knowledge about the best ways of doing things. for example, you might create procedural guidance based on your employees' best practice. see the page in this guide: create a knowledge strategy for your business. non-executive directors - these can be a good way for you to bring on board specialised industry experience and benefit from ready-made contracts.

exploiting your knowledge

consider the measurable benefits of capturing and using knowledge more effectively. the following are all possible outcomes:

an improvement in the goods or services you offer and the processes that you use to sell them. for example, identifying market trends before they happen might enable you to offer products and services to customers before your competitors.

you offer and the processes that you use to sell them. for example, identifying market trends before they happen might enable you to offer products and services to customers before your competitors. increased customer satisfaction because you have a greater understanding of their requirements through feedback from customer communications.

because you have a greater understanding of their requirements through feedback from customer communications. an increase in the quality of your suppliers , resulting from better awareness of what customers want and what your staff require.

, resulting from better awareness of what customers want and what your staff require. improved staff productivity , because employees are able to benefit from colleagues' knowledge and expertise to find out the best way to get things done. they'll also feel more appreciated in a business where their ideas are listened to.

, because employees are able to benefit from colleagues' knowledge and expertise to find out the best way to get things done. they'll also feel more appreciated in a business where their ideas are listened to. increased business efficiency , by making better use of in-house expertise.

, by making better use of in-house expertise. better recruitment and staffing policies. for instance, if you've increased knowledge of what your customers are looking for, you're better able to find the right staff to serve them.

policies. for instance, if you've increased knowledge of what your customers are looking for, you're better able to find the right staff to serve them. the ability to sell or license your knowledge to others. you may be able to use your knowledge and expertise in an advisory or consultancy capacity. in order to do so, though, make sure that you protect your intellectual property.

make knowledge central to your business

in order to manage the collection and exploitation of knowledge in your business, you should try to build a culture in which knowledge is valued across your business.

one way to do this might be to offer incentives to staff who supply useful market news or suggest ways customers can be better served. you can use these knowledge management practices throughout your organisation to build better processes.

as part of your knowledge management, you should also make sure that any intellectual property that your business holds is protected. this means that you have the right to stop competitors from copying it - and also allows you to profit by licensing your business' knowledge.

protecting and exploiting your knowledge base will be more effective if you develop efficient systems for storing and retrieving information. your files - whether stored digitally or on paper - contain knowledge that you can use to make your products, services, systems and processes better and more customer-focused.

keep knowledge confidential. your employment policies play a central role in this. for example, you might get staff to sign non-disclosure agreements (also known as confidentiality agreements) when they join the business as this ensures that they understand the importance of confidentiality from day one. employment contracts can be written to reasonably limit your employees' freedom to quit and work immediately for one of your rivals (restraint of trade clauses) or set up a competing business to yours in the vicinity (restrictive covenants).

sharing knowledge across your business

it's essential to avoid important knowledge or skills being held by only a few people, because if they leave or retire that expertise could be lost to your business. if you have efficient ways of sharing knowledge across the business, it will be more widely used and its value and effectiveness are likely to be maximised.

knowledge sharing

consider the best ways of sharing new ideas and information with your staff. you may already have regular meetings when you can brief employees and ask them to share ideas and best practice.

you could consider holding innovation workshops or brainstorming sessions at which staff are given the freedom and encouragement to think of ways in which the business could improve.

it can also be a good idea to create a knowledge bank containing useful information and instructions on how to carry out key tasks. putting this on an intranet is ideal as it will encourage staff to post news or suggestions.

knowledge management

technology alone isn't the answer to sharing knowledge - it has to be managed carefully so that information is channelled properly. you may decide to appoint a senior manager as knowledge champion for your business. see the page in this guide on how to make knowledge central to your business.

incentives and training

remember that offering staff incentives to come up with suggestions for how the business can be improved is often an effective way of getting them to use and share knowledge.

don't forget the importance of training in spreading key knowledge, skills and best practice across your business.

create a knowledge strategy for your business

if you want to get the most from your business' knowledge, you need to take a strategic approach to discovering, collating and sharing it. this is done via a knowledge strategy - a set of written guidelines to be applied across the business.

if your strategy is to be effective, you must make sure your senior managers are committed to it and are fully aware of the benefits it can bring. discuss with them the best ways of collecting and using knowledge.

you may decide to appoint a senior manager as knowledge champion for your business. for more information see the page in this guide on how to make knowledge central to your business.

when you're drawing up the strategy you need to:

consider how effective your business currently is at using its knowledge

analyse your internal processes for gathering and sharing information - are there successful ways of generating ideas and do staff have a good grasp of what's happening?

make sure that knowledge management, acquisition and distribution is a continuing process, so that it becomes central to your business' strategy

you should also identify the value of knowledge to your business. think of ways you could exploit your knowledge for financial gain - perhaps by gaining a larger market share, developing new products, or selling or licensing your protected intellectual property to others. ensure this fits in with your overall business plan.

using information technology to gain and manage knowledge

information technology offers powerful tools to help you gain and make the best use of knowledge. some of the systems can be complex to set up and time-consuming to maintain. you need to choose systems that fit with your business and that will improve it without becoming a burden. you may find it useful to consult an it specialist.

types of information technology

databases organise information so it can be easily accessed, managed and updated. for instance, you might have a database of customers containing their contact information, their orders and preferences.

organise information so it can be easily accessed, managed and updated. for instance, you might have a database of customers containing their contact information, their orders and preferences. a data warehouse is a central storage area you might use if you have a variety of business systems, or a range of information in different digital formats. many businesses now use digital asset management to store, manage and retrieve information, and this can be particularly helpful if you sell online. it is, however, a complex area technically and in task management, and you may wish to seek specialist advice from an it consultant.

is a central storage area you might use if you have a variety of business systems, or a range of information in different digital formats. many businesses now use digital asset management to store, manage and retrieve information, and this can be particularly helpful if you sell online. it is, however, a complex area technically and in task management, and you may wish to seek specialist advice from an it consultant. data mining is a process in which all the data you collect is sorted to determine patterns. for instance, it can tell you which products are most popular and whether one type of customer is likely to buy a particular item.

is a process in which all the data you collect is sorted to determine patterns. for instance, it can tell you which products are most popular and whether one type of customer is likely to buy a particular item. reporting and querying tools let you create reports interpreting data in a particular way. how many of your sales have been handled by one particular employee, for instance?

let you create reports interpreting data in a particular way. how many of your sales have been handled by one particular employee, for instance? business intelligence portals are websites that bring together all sorts of potentially useful information, such as legal issues or details of new research.

the internet and search engines - these can be a powerful source of knowledge, although be certain to check the credibility of your information source. internet newsgroups can be specific sources of business information, but check the authors' other postings before deciding how to view their opinions and claimed facts.

- these can be a powerful source of knowledge, although be certain to check the credibility of your information source. internet newsgroups can be specific sources of business information, but check the authors' other postings before deciding how to view their opinions and claimed facts. an intranet is a secure internal network for the sole use of your business.

is a secure internal network for the sole use of your business. an extranet is similar to an intranet but can be extended to customers and suppliers.

is similar to an intranet but can be extended to customers and suppliers. customer relationship management software helps you build up a profile of your customer database and enables you to target them through e-mail, telephone or postal marketing campaigns.

helps you build up a profile of your customer database and enables you to target them through e-mail, telephone or postal marketing campaigns. call-centre systems enable you to serve large numbers of customers if you sell by telephone.

enable you to serve large numbers of customers if you sell by telephone. website log-file analysis helps you to analyse how customers use your website so you can improve its effectiveness.

helps you to analyse how customers use your website so you can improve its effectiveness. systems to analyse and file customer letters, suggestions, emails, and call centre responses, which will enable you to spot trends, improve customer service and develop new products, services and systems.

original document, importance of knowledge to a growing business, © crown copyright 2009

source: business link uk (now gov.uk/business)

adapted for québec by info entrepreneursbest, information, importance, business, staff, knowledge, employees, customers, ways, way, products, growingbasic sources of knowledgeyour sources of business knowledge could include:customer knowledge - you should know your customers' needs and what they think of you.
make knowledge central to your businessin order to manage the collection and exploitation of knowledge in your business, you should try to build a culture in which knowledge is valued across your business.
this means that you have the right to stop competitors from copying it - and also allows you to profit by licensing your business' knowledge.
create a knowledge strategy for your businessif you want to get the most from your business' knowledge, you need to take a strategic approach to discovering, collating and sharing it.
original document, importance of knowledge to a growing business, © crown copyright 2009source: business link uk (now gov.uk/business)adapted for québec by info entrepreneurs